# sound-and-vision-fal14

"In this course students will explore various techniques, both practical and experimental, for sound and video synthesis as it relates to the production of multimedia applications as well as live audio visual performance. Comprehensive practical experience and substantial applied knowledge will be acquired through lectures, coursework, and critique. Students will begin by learning to work with the Max graphical programming environment, which is based on a patch bay metaphor, to produce their own programs (Max patches). Working with Max involves the visual arrangement and interconnection of blocks representing various inputs, outputs, and functions. Through the application of Max’s MSP and Jitter extensions, students will take advantage of the real-time audio and video processing capabilities of the application. Additionally, sound sequencing software, Ableton Live, will be integrated with Max. The application of sound control protocols, such as MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) and OSC (Open Sound Control), will be introduced and investigated. Students will be encouraged to consider new possibilities for input and output afforded by the use of various sensors and actuators with Arduino. Existing off-the-shelf motion controllers, for example the Wii Remote, Microsoft Kinect, and Leap Motion will also be adopted to capture and interpret movement and gesture for the purposes of controlling audio and video. For their final projects, students will create a unique musical instrument. The class culminates in a live performance where students will perform their instruments in front of an enthusiastic audience."
